View the React website https://react.dev/

# React JS
-  A node module
- Creates web pages with JavaScript instead of HTML
- HTML web pages are static - they don't change
- JavaScript web pages are dynamic - they can change

### React preview 
Missing notes here too

```
import React from "react";
import handleClick from "./utils/handleClick";
import handleSubmit from "./utils/handleSubmit";

const message = "Amazing world!";
const root = createRoot (window.bodyTag);
root.render(
<main>
    <h1>Hello React</h1>
    <h2>Start editing to see some magic hap</h2>
    <h3>{message}</h3>
    <button onClick={handleClick}>Click</button>
    <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
        <input/>
        <input type="button"></input>        
    </form>
</main>
) ;
```

```
export default function handleSubmit(event = new Event()) {
    event.preventDefault();
    console.log(event);
}
```

### Install React
1. View the React website https://react.dev/

- `npm init`
- `npm install react react-dom`

### Setup
Missing notes

1. Create `index.html` and add boilerplate tags.
2. Create `index.js` and connect it to `index.html`: <script src="index.js" defer></script>.
3. Import and use React packages.
4. Try to render the program in the browser.

index.html
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <title></title>
    <link href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css" 
    rel="stylesheet" integrity="sha384-QWTKZyjpPEjISv5WaRU9OFeRpok6YctnYmDr5pNlyT2bRjXh0JMhjY6hW+ALEwIH" 
    crossorigin="anonymous">
    <script src="index.js" defer></script>
</head>
<body>
    <header>
    </header>
    <main>
        <body id="bodyTag">
       </body>

    </main>
    <footer>
    </footer>
</body>
</html>
```

index.js
```
import { createRoot } from "react-dom/client";

const root = createRoot(window.bodyTag);
root.render(<h1>Hello, world!</h1>); 
```

### Using React with Webpack
- React is an external module.
- Webpack can make external modules work in the browser.
- 
1. Install webpack into the React workspace? Did we create a new workspace?
2. Set up the Webpack folder structure `src/index.js`.
3. Let `index.html` use the `dist/main.js` instead.
4. Try to render the program in the browser.

### Babel
- HTML is not valid JavaScript.
- HTML must be compiled or converted to useable JavaScript.
- Babel is a JavaScript compiler.
- It can compile HTML into browser-compatible JavaScript.

1. View the Babel website https://babeljs.io/.
2. Insert HTML into the online compiler to convert it to JavaScript.
3. Copy the code into your React program and run it.

### Compiling HTML to JavaScript
- Copy the HTML and paste it into
the Babel website.
- Copy the compiled code into
index.js

### Installing Babel
- Babel is a Node module
- Babel is like a translator, interpreting HTML to JavaScript
- `npm install @babel/core @babel/cli @babel/preset-react`
1. `@babel/core` - The main module with functions and classes
2. `@babel/cli` - A controller that allows babel to be used in the command line
3. `@babel/preset-react` - Provides instructions how to convert HTML to JavaScript

### Babel command line
- Provides instructions to the terminal for how to compile Babel with React

Full command: `npx babel ./src/index.js --presets=@babel/preset-react --out-file ./src/index.babel.js` 

1. `npx babel` 
2. Specify the file to compile `./src/index.js`.
3. Specify the instructions `--presets=@babel/preset-react`.
4. Specify the output file `--out-file ./src/index.babel.js`.


Index.js
```
import { createRoot } from "react-dom/client";
import React from "react";
const root = createRoot (window.bodyTag) ;
root.render(/*#__PURE_*/ React.createElement("h1", null, "Hello missing stuff here
```

### React with Webpack and Babel
- Use the compiled Babel file with Webpack.
- Updating changes can be tedious with the command line.
  
1. Make changes. 
2. Let `index.js` contain the code compiled with Babel.
3. Re-compile with Babel.
4. Re-bundle with `npx webpack`.
5. Render the React project in the browser.

### Manually using the file generated by Babel
1. Rename `index.js` to `index.original.js`.
2. Rename `index.babel.js` to `index.js`.
3. Run `npx webpack`.
    
### Babel configuration file
- A configuration file can be used to specify compile instructions
  
1. Create babel.config.json.
2. Add "presets": [ "@babel/preset-react"].
3. Make changes, re-compile with Babel, and re-bundle with Webpack.
4. Render the React project in the browser.

### Webpack and Babel
- Webpack can be instructed to compile with Babel
```
1. `npm install babel-loader`
2. Use Webpack file structure and make changes
3. `npx webpack --module-rules-use babel-loader`
```
_______________________________